# Heart_Disease_Prediction_Application_using_Random_Forest_Model

Data mining is the process of finding patterns and correlations within large data sets to predict outcomes. Applications of data mining are wide and diverse. Among these, health care is a major application of data mining. Using a wide range of techniques, one can use these clinical data to reduce risks. Heart Disease is the most dangerous life-threatening disease globally. It has been reported that Cardio Vascular Diseases rank number one among causes of death. The proposed project aims to bring these counts down by predicting the possibility of occurrence of CVDs at an earlier stage. The proposed work is broadly divided into two stages. During the first phase, large dataset containing patient records is collected. The dataset contains 11 attributes of 918 samples. The collected dataset was pre-processed and the outliers were handled. EDA had been carried out and useful insights were drawn out from the dataset. A Random Forest Classifier was trained using the dataset and tested based on the evaluation metrics. The model showed accuracy of about 85%. After performing Hyper-parameter tuning, the model’s accuracy increased to 87%. The second phase of our project was to develop an user-friendly website. A customized home page had been developed to get the user details. The model is dumped in the application and is used for prediction by getting the feature values from the patient. The probability of heart disease occurrence in the patient is calculated and the patient is put under one of the four proposed zones. The result page shows the patient, his/her chances of getting an heart disease and also the zone in which he/she is placed. The developed website could be used by doctors, lab technicians, or the general public to diagnose if a patient could encounter an heart disease in future.
